Again, thank you everyone. Good evening, good afternoon. Thank you everyone. Thank you very
much for participating. Today, again, we are going to discuss the teaching of the gracious
teacher, Buddha Shakyamuni. To begin this, always in the teaching said that we should
activate our beautiful motivations. Those are the teachings of the famous center known
as "Jhudurje Tsimu". "Jhudurje Tsimu" mentioned the contents of all the
conceptions of all thought, thought and what I'm sorry, give up the contents, give
up all the conceptions of thought and listen, reflecting the carefully the
teaching, and somehow we just disregarded and neglected that and even the Buddha
Vaidyasattva will have difficulty to bless those who are
destructive negligence. So that's really the teaching. So therefore
always, whenever we are reflecting of the teaching by the studying, contemplating,
meditating, and practicing, always activate the motivation. It is so important.
Among the motivation, good motivation. What is good motivation? Joy, appreciation,
devotion, and the preciousness feelings, really feeling of the preciousness. Our
life is precious, teaching is precious, lineage is precious, situation and time
and circumstance are precious. All the precious things are gathered in our
sight for us. How wonderful, how beautiful, really, have the determination, courage,
and commitment, our values should activate the teaching, not just only the
reading and following that but going to practice. Observe that in heart, feel that
strongly heart, order to propose the benefit for all living beings. Helping
for all the beings, that attitude is so important. We have that attitude in the
teaching and say that every year have the good heart and good, good intention that
everything will turn into the good. And somehow if we don't have the good
intention or neglect that even we're doing good practice, it's just not going
exactly on the right direction. So therefore, it is to activate it is so
important to activate. And then teaching itself, in the Buddha teaching, there is
two teachings known as the Buddha's teachings, the Scraptural teaching and
the commentary teachings. So these two, Scraptural teaching which is the
Grace of the Buddha Shakyamuni taught, taught from age 35 till age 82 or 81. All
those teachings about Buddha, spoken teaching Buddha by Buddha, is known as
Scraptural teachings. And then later on, great masters met the
commentaries, wrote commentary on the Buddha teaching. Those are known as
the commentary teachings. Among those two teachings, what we are going to discuss
today is commentary teaching in a way. And who wrote this teaching? It's a gracious
and famous great master and a realizable being or realizable master known as his
Holiness Dhunurumbuja, commonly and generally, regularly,
Japji Dhunurumbuja. He wrote this. He wrote so many commentaries and sadhana
that connected with the teaching of the Grace of the Buddha Shakyamuni and
Gaurupahema Sambhava, over 25 volumes, volumes. Among that, just one of the
teachings that I picked up and thought represent to you all. At the same time,
remind to myself too, we all are followers of the Buddha, Gaurupahema Sambhava,
in His Holiness Dhunurumbuja or Japji Dhunurumbuja. They are reminding to each
other to activate, resten our practice. Resten our practice is really very
important. So that thought, I thought that among all the many greatest
teachings, I picked up this one teaching and then made valuable to you by the
assistance of the, again, our Sangha members, Pete De Niro's and other Sangha
members who really helped to put together and present to you that. So
that's what the teaching is. And now, this teaching we started with here and
again, as you said, I'm adding also a few things because I'm going to go over this
teaching according as much as I can, kind of go a little bit extensively that
benefit, which will benefit to us, to all of us. So I'm going to do that. But
at the same time, I thought maybe if I able to put that in this
together, that will help you all to, all to understanding more, kind of
easily know that what I'm following that. So I put those addition things, which is
also teaching of the Buddha and other great masters. And that is, again, we
started with page 10 here, page 10, and that's the text. And here I said, "Pete
instruction to my friend." That is his own dungeon, what he said. This is his
friend. And particularly, he has so many disciples, so many disciples. Among that,
this teaching is requested by two individuals. He's named at the end of
this colophon, colophon, which is known as Shuwen and Tsutrams, I think.
Two people. Two people insisted, "Please give some Pete instructions." So his
owners gave these teachings to, specifically, to that person, but also it
to all of us, not just to this individual. Here is to my friend's instruction to my
friend. My friend, of course, one way is just a very kind of person, two
things. But according to the Vayayana teaching, in the Buddha teaching, all the
sentient beings are our friends. All living beings are our friends. That is, go
ahead and go back to Antara teaching. There is close friend, intimate friend,
close friend, and larger group friend, and all friends. So this is all friends. So in
that way, intimate friend and very close friend, and as well as the larger group
friend, and whole friend. So whoever, whoever like, interests to practices,
whoever like to follow the teaching of the Buddha, this is to everyone, not
just to individuals. And so here, they have four, two friends, three friends,
all the friends. Then I put here, as a beginning, and generally, always in every
teaching, say this, "To begin with this, to begin with this, it is extremely crucial
for people in road with good fortune to the master of the corporate enemy mind,
reverse the continuum, again and again, with pure desire, obtain the
precious state of the liberation and the omniscient, as well as relying on the
light of the excellent dharma that gathered with teaching of the exalted
speech of the Buddha, the king of the subdual, the vehicle, with the nine
stages, and endowed with the three valid ways of not knowing that." So this is the
summary of the teachings, kind of highlight of the subheadings of this. What
I say, he is saying that, that, as I said earlier, we are all really fortunate
person. Everyone is fortunate. We all practitioners are very fortunate. And to
have every situation in a circumstances, conditions are on our side, and eating
endowments, eating freedom, luxuries call it, really, we all have that. It is so
wonderful, so special. And so that this special situation of circumstance is
also not going to last forever, because well, everything is on our side, and with
us, it is very important to use this opportunity to do practices, practices.
And why we need practices? That means we're going to reverse our samsara
situation, samsara. To what? To the enlightenment status. What is our nature?
Always in the teachings, our nature is enlightened, Buddha-nature. Buddha-nature,
but if, even though it is Buddha-nature, this present time, this Buddha-nature is not
fully wake up. Why? Due to the ignorance. We are deluded. When was deluded? And that
is known as beginnerness, we are deluded. But even we are deluded, nature is never
changed. It remained all the time same. Nature never changed. What means nature?
Buddha-nature never changed. We have that bright star in our heart as the Buddha-
nature, never changed. But if we walk for this, we can really make the difference,
reveal our full Buddha-nature. How this Buddha-nature is deluded? How is it
deluded as like dream-like in a teaching set? Dream-like. The dream is never
kind of like created by the ordinary, it comes. It comes like suddenly due to the
situation and circumstance and our kind of habit patterns as it arises.
Similarly, this habit pattern is produced by ignorance and then we are deluded. We
are wandering in a samsara. And how long we are going to wander in a samsara? That
is until we reversed our dissolution by the practice, by the meditation. And then
when we reverse that, what? It will return back to our ordinary-nature state of the
Buddha, Buddha-nature. Then we get enlightened. We become enlightened. So
in order to do that, in order to reverse our our nature and in order to reverse our
delusion and bring the full bloom-nature status, then we should do the practices.
For that reason, Buddha gave a variety of teachings, as in the teaching offering
said, nine yana, different levels of teachings Buddha gives. Those are the
names, I just would say names, of course many of you already know. Those are the
first outer yanas, three yanas, which is known as kyarvaka yana and the
pati-buddha yana and bodhisattva yanas. Those are the outer three yanas, which is
also known as causal yanas. And then three inner yanas, and those are karya. This is
then started tantra teaching. And so those are three outer sutra teaching, and now
three inner tantra started tantra teaching. And the outer tantra has
kriya tantra, oba tantra, and yoga tantra. Those are three outer tantras. Three inner
tantra or the cigarette tantra, which is then known as mahayoga, anayoga,
anayoga teaching. So all those teachings are known as nine yana teachings,
teachings. So now what we have, we all have the abundance of nine yana
teachings according our readiness, we can practice it. And for that reason, he has
said that we have all that weaker stages, situation and circumstances so
perfectly, beautifully. And therefore, we should activate our practice in meditation
with the beautiful intention and the beautiful thought, thought and the joyful
effort. So that is the subheadings of this. Then I go to the next one. It starts
with me here. That is now actually his dunjiramudya saying, "Aho, listen to my
friends." That's it. "Aho" is the expressions in a Tibet. It sounds good word, but in the
teachings, "Aho" means wonderful, amazing, awesome. It's kind of like awesome,
wonderful, amazing situation. Why? He said, "Because we have the precious lives. It's
amazing. How awesome. Our teachings are available. How awesome.
Ladies and Master are also available. How awesome. And our readiness is also,
motivation is also really ready, kind of we are prepared. It's awesome. So all these
awesomes, how wonderful. So that means how my friend or my friend who are ready to
activate their Buddha nature and pursue that is really natural and to benefit
for sentient beings, they are awesome. They are wonderful. They're beautiful. For
those people, then listen. Listen is actually, listen. Listen is in the
teaching said this, listen carefully. What the greatest teacher,
Buddha Shakyamuni when he gave the teachings, what he said in the Tibet,
"Listen carefully and keep that," what did you listen, "hold in the mind and then I
will explain to you." That's the teaching said. So what that actually means in the
teaching said, even you are in the teaching, sometimes we are not listening
carefully. And what is there, those are the errors of the listenings, errors of
the mistakes of listening. Now, not attentive listening is like the
port are upside down. No matter how much the pool, the water or liquid, it won't go
in the port. So is the errors of the listening, listening, errors of
listening. That's the first mistake. And then, and if you don't keep what you
heard into the heart with memorize or convey somebody mindfulness, then it is
like yield in this water. The errors of the mistakes not holding the
teaching in the mind as the port has holes. For example, if you pull the whole
port, it's not upside down, but it is the regular way. Now, put in the water or
liquid, but port has a hole. Hole is just sipping away, going away. That is the second
mistake of the listeners in the teaching said, the second mistake. And then, third
mistake is the mixed with the emotions. Where you listen to the teachings, all the
different, again, emotions of the our past, the present or the future plans,
again, is hovering in the brain or hovering in the mind, and a little bit of
Dharma is coming to you. But it all mixed with that. That is liquid or the pure
liquid is mixed with the very diluted kind of like liquidus or diluted maybe
some degree, contaminated. Contaminated. That is third mistakes. And so, for that
reason, gracious teacher, Buddha Shakyamuni mentioned in the teaching,
"Teaching, listen carefully and keep that in the heart, then I will explain to you."
Those are really in the teaching said, that is what how you listen. You listen
with attitude of the how wonderful, how precious, how special. This is
something that I want to do. It's going to help the benefit to myself and that I
can benefit for other scientific beings. I can purify my obscurations,
negativities, and we can reactivate our joy and appreciation, courage and
commitment, realization in both each other, inherent in nature. How wonderful, how
beautiful. Come to that attitude, feel the precious feeling, feel the
special feeling. Listen. Then that is called the perfect listening. So here, he's
only doing it when he's saying, "Listen with that." These two students who
recognize that they are very earnest, they were interested in that. And so, but again,
this. So carefully listen these two. Then, next one is really from here to
up to here. This human body is the freedom advantage is difficult to
obtain and from that you must complete the ultimate aim. Until that,
until that three lines explaining the basic Buddhism foundation teachings, basic
Buddhism foundation teachings, which is known as then poor points of the
nature, poor point of the phenomena systems, realities. Many times it is also
known as poor renounceations, poor attitude that reverse the mind from
samsara to the dharmas. Dharmas, those are summarized teaching. But I added
these small things that you can see here. That is, the first is explanation of how
those poor renounceations or poor attitudes of the post precious human
body or precious life. Second is impermanent. Third is the cause and
effects are inevitable. And fourth is samsara has difficulty. I think that's
it. Those are the four points. This is what here said, I adopted that from the
kenji pande karamojis teaching or compiled teaching. Teaching, I put this,
but this is not kenji pande karamojis world or nor my world or any other, but
those are the great masters in the Buddha's world teaching exactly in the
highlight here. And that first one is who said shanti deva. You know the shanti
deva. Second one is where I said that the excellent display sutta, that is the
Buddha's teaching. No jacarabha is the Buddha's teaching is actually Buddha's
life story, sutta, that explain of how Buddha was born. Third is, and here
I said too, instruction to the king. That is again Buddha's teaching. And the
next one is also in a, following is a Buddha teaching. And what is, again, this
jacarabha or the display sutta. The extensive display sutta says all
Buddha's as well as a great master's teaching. So it's not something that, but
that, so I highlighted this here, that we all can see this clearly that, so it can
understand. And this is, although this polarization is, condense the meaning of
the post to truth of the poor noble truths. Post poor noble truths, you all
know that. Again I listed that. First is suffering truth. And the second is cause
of suffering truth. Third is and cessation truth.
Post is a path, a path truth. So those are the poor truth. But this poor truth is, we
divided that into two groups. Post is teaching, person or is, post to truth of
its teachings on the samsara. Second to truth is teachings on the nirvana. Post to
truth is teachings on the samsara. Second to truth of these teachings on the
nirvana. Both samsara and nirvana is not happening by itself. It is happening by
the cause and condition and it is a result. Cause and conditions are known as
source of suffering truth, for example, you see. Solve the suffering truth. That is
cause of samsara. And the result is then, what is it called? Result of the cause of
suffering produced is suffering truth. So that is samsara. Samsara has a cause
and condition. The nirvana has cause and condition result. Way that happening, way
that works, that is known as in the Buddha's teaching, known as interdependent
coordination or interconnected systems. This cause is not just one single entity
object that are producing everything. No. That cause has so many again, sub causes.
So many sub causes. They go all cooperating together. Condition is not
just one condition. Entities. So many conditions. Way cause and conditions are
working is completely cooperating, magically interconnecting, without
clashing, without bouncing, harmonizing and cooperating. That is known as
magically displaced. Where this display is happening, have you, we think carefully,
is all happening in the emptiness states. Emptiness states. Each of those cause and
conditions, sub cause and sub conditions, are all particles. All are sub
particles. Sub particles of the sub particles. So many sub particles.
Cooperating together and together is working in a way. And each of those
accordant teaching, so much spaces, so much losers, losers, that's what they can
work together. App is so much solid, everything can work. But all cooperatives
so magically, that's what is magic. Magic. So therefore, this first four, this four,
renouring third is essence of teachings of the first four novel, first two novel
truth of the four novel truths. I think you understand. First two novel truths. So
this, that's it. And yeah, so that is what. And now this is, so what are those? First
is, precious life. This our life is so important. It's so precious. But it is
also a point that is so many different things. It's not just, our life is just a
one-piece object. There's so many variety of the things. There's elements. Five
elements. Our body has five elements. Fire, water, wind, earth, and space. All that with
this body. And then our body is also gross level in what in the teaching said. Five
aggregates. Poem aggregates, feeling aggregates, perception aggregates,
consumption aggregates, consciousness aggregates. All the five aggregates with
five elements, all cooperated. It's a combination of the Guru all together.
It's now together. Since it's a Guru, it's not just a came to the Guru from the
big and less time. It's newly arrived. For that means, newly arrived means before.
According our age. For me, maybe our 70 years ago, it's arrived. Not before. Not
before. How long this is going to stay? It's newly arrived 70 years ago. How long
this will stay like this? Wish so long. That's the wish. But how long realistically we
can, how long can stay? It's all together now. There's so many put, not just one,
those five, five elements, five aggregates, but beside that there's so many other
things really. So therefore, well everything, this kind of beautiful, that
function, a beautiful quality is so special. This body is so special. It's
precious. It's so precious. It's difficult to obtain,
obtain it. And then the larger level in the Buddha teaching, teaching here. And in
the Buddha teaching, always said, it's so difficult to, to obtain this, to compare
with how many, this our life, what we call this our life, is according to Buddha's
teaching, these luxurious lives. And in according to Buddha's teaching, there's six
rams. Six rams. Our rams is upper rams. And there's lower rams and upper rams.
Upper rams, lower rams has three lower rams, which is hell rams, and the hungry
ghost, animal rams. And three upper rams, human, asura, god rams. We are in human rams.
It's upper rams. So to compare with all the lower rams, we have so many luxuries.
So many beautiful. This human love has so many luxuries. So many beautiful things.
But yet, also it's very subtle to compare with, with according to Buddha's teaching
on Buddhism, even though they say that so many human population is, but to compare
it with the, with the population of the animals and human population is just a
can't, the human population is so small. Really, even though to come, I would say
the human population is growing and all that, but to compare it with the animal
populations and the human population is so, so small. Among the human
populations, those who are engaged with the kind of decent attitude of
loving-kindness of comparison and appreciation and respect to each other
and all beings, how many people do that? Even the human beings, among the human
beings, how many people? But those who have a little bit decent attitude of the
other beings, their lives are so precious and important and respect, they have attitude,
that is very seldom, very special. And some degree, we all have that. Dharma
practitioners who are really have that, maybe not all the time, but at least the
on and off, on and off whether, but Dharma practitioners has more than many other
peoples. That is very special in Buddhism. It's really so special. So all this
special qualities, well we're here, now now we want to make more special for the
time and the joyful effort to make something special for now and for the
future and more for the future. That is known as using our spiritual life in a
meaningful way to benefit ourselves to all the beings. And then here, it's said
that, yeah, and if we don't use this great Master Shanti, they were said, I mean, it's
translated already in here, but it's very difficult to gain these, again,
opportunities. It's difficult to gain these opportunities because our, this
according to teaching, our life, or the lives of every living being follows with
Karma, so that if we don't do really nice in this lifetime, time, maybe our
future Karma will be different. And this certainly our, this life situation, this
life, what we are, that is result of the past Karma according to Buddha teaching. So
that means we can tell, past Karma is quite good, we did good things. But now
if we do continue to do, future will be then good. If we don't do exactly as we
should do, and then our future life will be maybe not exactly good, good, or can't
know. Therefore, we should really, really do very, as much as we can do good things
in these lives. So that is really about the first this precious human body, body
or the precious lives among the poor, poor. And next one is then impermanent. This is
again, generally, I think whenever you know, this poor noble truth, poor noble
truth, first noble truth, suffering truth can be divided into poor groups, poor.
Those are known as the, and the suffering truth is divided, now poor noble
truth. Poor noble truth can be divided, each of those as poor, poor, poor. And then
that makes all 16, 16 groups of the, not groups, 16, 16 truthers, 16 truthers, I
think, Denshong, 16 truthers. Poor noble truth is divided as, and I think many of
you maybe you know, but many of you maybe did not heard this or that. So I will
list this four. First is called impermanent, mada. Second is suffering,
mada dongar. And the third is the emptiness. Poor is egoless. These four are
the first poor noble truth. Normally we call the poor noble, poor noble,
post suffering truth. The suffering truth is divided into these four, impermanent,
suffering, emptiness, and egolessness, egoless. This is the four. How that is
actually said, said. This, this is because in the Buddha's teaching, teaching, there's
the fourth, there is nothing is solid. Nothing object is in samsara, is really
solid, is impermanent. This also noble truth is Buddha's teaching, is teaching
of the, known as teaching of the wisdom, teaching of the intelligence. Buddha see
exactly where things are operating on the relative level. Buddha see things
exactly where things are in absolute level. And speaking that exactly as he
see, that is known as wisdom teachings. So if this is a wisdom teaching, wisdom.
And so the fourth Buddha see the all these things, samsara or everything what
you see is really impermanent. There's no one, nothing in the impermanent. This
the permanent has a true impermanent. That is gross impermanent and subtle
impermanent. Gross impermanent we all know. Every sentient being, every human being
will know or mostly. Gross impermanent because things, oh now the building
collapsed. Or that person died. We see is changed. Or is getting old. Or they
are getting sick. Those are gross impermanent. Easy. But subtle is impermanent
is so subtle we, our wisdom knowledge cannot detect. So subtle. And those were
known as the instant impermanent. Subtle impermanent. This gross impermanent is
not just a happening by that moment. It was pushed and caused by the subtle
impermanent that happened all the time. That created that big change that we
see. The gross impermanent. So subtle impermanent is so subtle, so refined. And
is every, there's no, what is the example or what is the characteristic of the
impermanent. It said the impermanent means the moment it's, moment you see that
moment changed. That is a characteristic of the impermanent. Moment it is existing,
that moment is changed. It's moving. So that means, relatively we talking, there's
nothing is sitting even one second. It's really moving force. Moving force. Where
that happening? In the space of the emptiness. All that happening. And so
therefore, every, many great masters say, if you have the realization of the
impermanent, that subtle impermanent realization, then you won't have the ego.
Attachment too. Even the attachment won't. Because attachment means something to
holding. Clinging. Holding. So then every subtle change, that means not just that
object is changing that way, but all subject is changing like that too. There's
no staying existing. Once, one instant. There's no one instant really staying.
Even our consciousness is moving fast. So therefore, attachment, there is nothing
substantial solid existing. Attachment is also moving. Moving. And therefore, also
the ego, there's nothing really existing in a way. So for those reason, many times
this impermanent is so special teaching. I mean, again, of course, Buddha's
teaching, there's many are known as lines wrote teaching. Not many other great
masters spoke, but Buddha spoke those is very special teaching. And this is
impermanent, one of the special teaching of the Buddha. Buddha, which is not
making up things, or it's not something that you have to believe is happening. We
can see some degree. Ourself, we can validate our own cognitions.
So therefore, it is a wisdom teaching, so impermanent. That is what impermanent.
And then, this is, I just will give really that thought. The second one, second
subdivision of the suffering truth is suffering. Why is called suffering? It's
because it's emotions, all created by the emotions. What that means, the emotions,
emotions of the anger, attachment, jealous, and grasping, clinging, created the
things. Therefore, it is trouble, is the difficulty, is the challenge, is the
suffering. Suffering. Because that is what the emotions are, trouble. So therefore,
it is suffering, that. And then, is it empty? Third subdivision of the
suffering truth, empty. What means? Empty means everything, there's not any solid
existing, and there's no behind the scenes. There is no one is controlling this all
situation, the circumstances. There's no controllers in Buddhism. It's
empty. You don't, by the valid cognition, you can validate that there's no one is
controlling. Controlling. It's empty of controlling. Controlling by any means of
powers. It's self is functioning. It's self is performing. So that is third
subdivision of the empties, of the suffering truth. And all this difficulty
troubles, the challenges, there's no one is controlling, is all disciplines, all
happening, by the cause and condition and effect systems. Then, that third one, ego
subdivision, fourth one, ego subdivision, fourth subdivision, the
egolessness. Egolessness means, again, there is no, again, controller of the ego
existing within each of our aggregates. If you look to the form
aggregates, there is no egos, the controller. That book say, or I am the
controller of the ego. And if you look to the peeling aggregate and perception,
consumption, conscience, each of you look, there is no controllers, nor there's not
any existing egos, or eyes, or self. Self is all empty. There's nothing. For that
reason, this is called fourth subdivision of the suffering truths. Suffering truth.
So therefore, this impermanent. This is what we are teaching here.
Teaching is this gross impermanent. Here, what is it? The three realms are the
impermanent, like the clothes, or the autumns. It's subtle, it's happening all the time,
but Buddha highlight here, the gross impermanent. And gross impermanent is
three realms, are like, like as the impermanent, they are like the clothes in the
autumn skies, always in changing. And when you look to our, the lives of the human
beings, or the lives of enemies or animals, human beings is like, like place on the
stages. Place on the stage is never going to stay forever. On the, like such as
Broadway shows, how long that Broadway show goes, that, that particular one. Three
hours for hours. Then it's gone. Similarly, the our lives and lives of the human
beings, or all the animals, all is like, just like, like place. It's changed, it's
changed. It's like somebody else looking to this world, how our lives are changing,
all that is really like, as like dance or play. It's just changing so many things,
one after another. So it's like, for that reason, reason is just all lives are like
looking to the, to the dance, similar with the play force. And then our life is
like, like it moves so fast, as like, like lightning in the sky, or water gushing
from the steep mountains, is really learning. And life is so, in that way, so
important. From the time we born, until now, life is continually moving, forward,
forward, to that destination. Nations, no, no, no one can stop, never going to change,
is continuous. So therefore, again, in the teaching set, that, well, everything is in
our sight. One, while everything is our, our reach is so, so important. Really we do
some good things to practices. And that is explaining in here. Here, the practice is,
then, this is cause and calmness, calmness here, that the contemplate on the unerring
of the cause and the effect, the sutra instruction of the king says, we can go
tomorrow. I mean, of course, you will know this. It's not something that, but he said,
said, in that teaching, he said, that what is really, when we leave this world, what
will come? What will come with us? Only that we develop with our consciousness.
With our consciousness is, according to Buddhism, our consciousness is travelling.
Our body and our everything will stay behind. We can't take anything. But our
consciousness will move forward. Whatever we develop with our consciousness, that
will come with us. So that is known as, then, such as karmas. Every activity, whatever
performance we do, it has imprint or it has karma. It created the habit patterns,
habituals. That habituals are registered in the karma banks. Karma banks. That karma
bank is alaya in the accord of Buddhism or the subconscious storehouse. It really
registered everything. So that bank, that will come with us. Karma. If it's a good
karma, that will come with us. If it's a bad karma, it will come with us. That is
really the welcome. So therefore, this is so, here, the great Buddha giving this
teaching to this, he's one of the disciples, famous, or king disciples, which is
Jarpa Sajyar, is king of Kosalas. In that time, in the Buddha's time, there is six
great cities or kingdoms in India and one of these Kosala kingdoms. In modern
time, or not modern time, ancient time, it is also known as Shavastha. That area is
very famous, the king known as King Sajya, Prasanjita in Sanskrit, in Tibet, is known
as Sajyal. So Buddha gave me instruction to this king and that's what he
said in here, here, the translator. And that is my talk today and then we
continue. Thank you very much everyone. Thank you, thank you very much for
participating. Thank you, thank you. Now we do the short dedication prayer, which is
here. And then, right after that, if you have time, you will join with our evening
practices. If you don't have time, and that's it, then, but this is after this
dedication prayer in the page, page 19 and this. By this merit, may all obtain the
omniscient, may all defeat the enemy wrongdoing from the strong waves of the
birth, the old, the sickness, and the death from the ocean of the samsara, may I free
all beings. May the soul, soul, and the benefit of happiness, the Buddha's teachings remain for a
long time.
May the victory banner of the lives of the known ones, the holders of the teachings of the main
family.
May all the many beings, always be joyful. May all the verses of the lower ends cease forever.
May the wishes of all the Buddhist authors and all the women of the religion at this very moment
for the people of the nations of the Earth,
may not even the names, disease, famine, war, and suffering be heard.
But rather may pure conduct, merit, wealth, and prosperity increase,
and may supreme good fortune and well-being always arise.
The precious bodhicitta in those without it may it be generated,
and those who have it may it never diminish, but always continue increasing.
May the great tradition of kenpo, shankarakshita, lopan, pasa, and bhava, and dharma king, krits
and detsan,
increase and spread throughout the three-round world.
May the appearance of the three jewels and the mind-streets of beings
remain inseparable in the springs of life well-being throughout the three times.
deity, mantra, and dharmakaya are the nature of appearance, sound, and awareness.
The pervasive kaya, wisdom display of the buddhas,
may practitioners of the profound and secret great perfection
remain inseparable from the innermost, on taste, awareness of wisdom.
Okay, thank you. Thank you very much everyone. Again, thank you.
Thank you. As I said, if you have time, please join our practices,
and if not, then we will see the continuous day after tomorrow, I think.
Okay, thank you. Thank you very much everyone.